From ancient times, Jehovah has directed his people to build.
The joyful work of constructing and remodeling buildings to advance pure worship has continued in our time.
But who could have anticipated the tremendous scale and need for today's worldwide building work,
requiring so many volunteers, tools, equipment, and often working in challenging situations.
With all this building comes the risk of accidents that can result in serious injury.
That's why we as Jehovah's people care deeply about protecting the lives and safety of all our fellow construction volunteers.
This is not a hypothetical consideration.
Sadly, some of our brothers and sisters have experienced serious injuries while volunteering on projects.
Some of the most serious imaginable are global life, safety, and loss prevention guidelines clearly states.
Our goal is to have an accident-free environment with minimum loss.
This zero-accident goal can be accomplished if each one realizes that his attitude toward the life safety and loss prevention reflects his spirituality.
How can we accomplish this?
Let's consider three important aspects.
Our attitude toward our work, how we plan for it, and how we work to avoid potential danger.
First our attitude.
Proverbs 16-18 tells us pride is before a crash and a haughty spirit before stumbling.
No matter how skilled or experienced we may be, we need to humbly follow safety direction.
We also need to show modesty if we're inexperienced and let others train us properly before we begin to work with unfamiliar equipment.
The easiest is 10-9 tells us the one who quarries stones may be hurt by them and the one who splits logs may be endangered by them.
Many aspects of construction are inherently dangerous.
This underscores our second aspect.
We need to plan wisely.
How can we plan for a safe work experience?
We have tools to help.
The guideline working together safely provides standards for our construction and maintenance projects.
It also reminds us of our personal responsibility.
Are you familiar with its sound guidance?
Our job has our analysis forms for maintenance and construction help us anticipate potential safety risks.
Let's examine just a few of the potential dangers it helps us to foresee in advance of working on a project.
This pipe here has a leak and needs to be fixed.
We're going to have to do a weld here I'm afraid.
Well, we'll have to insulate this part here in between the wall and the pipe.
Otherwise we'll end up creating a fire hazard here in the kingdom home.
I see. Let me write that down.
I was thinking too. We should assign someone to stand by with a fire extinguisher while the weld is being done.
You're right.
And also I think we should put someone on fire hazard duty to make sure nothing catches fire after the weld is done.
I agree. Good idea.
Perfect. I'll go ahead and make the assignments then.
Okay. Let's do it.
I think that here the brothers are going to need safety boots so that they don't slip and fall.
They're also going to need safety harnesses since they'll be up pretty high.
What do you think?
Do you remember if all the brothers assigned were trained to work with safety harnesses?
We're also going to need a support team to be ready to help in case of an accident.
It would be best if we could have less people up on the roof.
But it's impossible to inspect things from down here, right?
I have an idea.
What if we put a camera on a long pole and do the inspection from down here?
We can check everything out from one end to the other.
Okay. Great idea.
This wise planning reflects the third aspect of achieving our zero accident goal.
Pay close attention to direction so we can work to eliminate or avoid danger.
When working on a large project or a smaller one, including maintenance work,
the right attitude, planning and actions will help keep our brothers and sisters safe.
So remember the steps we can take to ensure safety.
First, have Jehovah's view of things. Life is precious.
Second, be wise and anticipate the potential hazards.
And third, once you anticipate a risk, take precautions to remove or reduce it.
Never forget how serious maintaining safety is.
It demonstrates obedience to Jehovah and affects our relationship with him.
While we're working on theocratic building projects, we cannot expect miraculous protection.
Just as Jehovah wants us to exert ourselves in preaching to others to help save lives,
he requires us to work obediently to protect our fellow volunteers.
Jehovah tells us in Proverbs, safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability.
They will give you life and be an adornment for your neck.
And then you will walk on your way in safety.
Let us all act wisely and walk safely as we work together on Kingdom Hall projects and maintenance and construction projects.